Company Overview

Kairos Power is a new nuclear energy technology and engineering company whose mission is to enable the world’s transition to clean energy, with the ultimate goal to dramatically improve people’s quality of life while protecting the environment. This goal will be accomplished through the commercialization of the fluoride-salt-cooled, high-temperature reactor (FHR) that can be deployed with robust safety, affordable costs, and flexible operation to accommodate the expansion of variable renewables.

Job Summary

Kairos Power is seeking a highly motivated Senior Engineer will be part of the team focused on Design for Operations and the development and maturation of the Concept of Operations for the KP-FHR, with near term applicability for the Hermes Demonstration Reactor. You will work in close collaboration with systems, nuclear, mechanical, process, I&C engineering groups and operations to ensure major plant functional and operational needs are translated into the design to ensure successful plant operation. If you have power, chemical, or process plant operational and design experience, see how you can leverage it to support the next generation of clean energy.

Responsibilities

Develop and refine the plant’s detailed operational strategy, including operating modes, envelopes and key state points, leveraging deep knowledge of plant performance requirements.
Translate operational goals into actionable system- and component-level requirements for Structures, Systems and Components (SSCs), balancing performance expectations and design constraints.
Define anticipated and planned plant transients and collaborate with simulation teams to model and assess system responses and design adequacy.
Collaborate closely with cross-functional design teams to inform and guide plant-level decisions, ensuring operational requirements and control strategies are incorporated.
Support design optimization efforts aimed at enhancing plant performance, reliability and availability while mitigating technical risks.
Support development of design for operations workflows to support delivery of the plant from concept to detailed design included plant commissioning.
Perform other duties as assigned. 

Qualifications

BS or MS Mechanical, Nuclear, Chemical or other related engineering discipline with 6+ years of relevant experience.
4+ years of experience in either plant design and/or plant performance analysis.
Fundamental understanding of power or industrial process plant operation and equipment and the interrelationships between them.
Plant Performance - Proficient knowledge in power plant steady state performance.
Plant Dynamics – Proficient knowledge in power plant maneuvering, control of closed-loop heat transport systems, transient thermodynamics and T-H.
Demonstrated experience applying understanding of plant operations in the development of plant design configuration.
Demonstrated ability of applying engineering knowledge to deliver results while being able to thrive in an environment with evolving requirements.
Strong technical writing skills, with the ability to clearly document operational philosophies, assumptions and technical decisions.
Demonstrated ability to work as part of a team on problems as well as lead/coordinate the timely resolution of issues in cross functional teams.

Knowledge, Skills & Abilities

Strong interpersonal skills and able to be independent, resourceful, and proactive in the face of the lack of information or unknowns. 
Desire and ability to function in a fast-paced small company environment while wearing multiple hats. 
Working experience with plant simulation tools (e.g., APROS or other simulation platform) is desired.
Ability to work with highly collaborative team.
Ability to solve problems quickly and efficiently.
Prioritizes and ensures safety of one self and others.
Ability to proactively collect, manage and transfer knowledge.
Ability to seek different and novel ways to create efficiencies when working on problems, challenges and issues. 

Physical Demands

Remaining in a stationary position for prolonged period.

Environmental Conditions

General office environment.
Assessing the accuracy, neatness and thoroughness of the work assigned.
High-concentration, demanding and fast-paced. 

Safety and PPE

Supporting and engaging in Process Hazards Analysis (PHA) and Haz Ops.
Reading and interpreting hazardous warning signs.
Reporting issues with equipment or unsafe conditions.
Wearing proper PPE, to include face mask, face shields, gloves, safety shoes. 

Travel

Some travel may be required (up to 20%). 

About Our Benefits

We know that we have some of the most talented and dedicated employees, and we believe in rewarding them accordingly. If you work here, full-time employees (excludes interns) expect to have access to the benefits below:

Competitive compensation packages
Medical, dental and vision benefits for employees and their dependents
Paid Vacation
401(k) and pre-tax health insurance, dependent care, and commuter benefits (FSA)

Kairos Power is committed to building a diverse workforce that reflects the communities where we do business. Kairos Power is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, national origin, genetics, disability, age, or veteran status. We actively welcome people of different experiences, abilities, and perspectives.

Kairos Power participates in E-Verify.

Candidates only, no recruiters or agencies please.

Note: You are applying for a position that is located in a facility that handles information that is subject to export control restrictions by the Department of Energy under 10 CFR Part 810. To work in this facility, you need to be authorized by the Department of Energy to access Part 810-controlled information. Foreign nationals who are citizens of countries that are not on the Department of Energy’s general authorization list (link below) are not permitted to work in our facility unless the Department of Energy issues an export control license to the company to permit that individual to have access to Part 810-controlled information. The following questions are intended to determine the licensing requirements that may apply. https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/10/appendix-A_to_part_810